Documenting Imports from Serato (#150)
mixxxdj/manual: source/chapters/library.rst

.. _library-third-party:

Using libraries from other software
===================================

.. sectionauthor::
   S.Brandt <s.brandt@mixxx.org>

>    Ukpai Ugochi <outreachy applicant>

Reviewer: You can put your email address here if you want.

Author: done!

Supported libraries:

* |ic_lib_itunes| `iTunes <https://www.apple.com/itunes/>`_ (Windows, macOS)
* |ic_lib_traktor| `Traktor <https://www.native-instruments.com/en/catalog/traktor/>`_ (Windows, macOS)
* |ic_lib_rhythmbox| `Rhythmbox <https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Rhythmbox>`_ (GNU/Linux)
* |ic_lib_banshee| `Banshee <http://banshee.fm/>`_ (Windows, macOS, GNU/Linux)

> * |ic_lib_serato| `Serato <https://serato.com/>`_ (Windows, macOS, GNU/Linux)

Reviewer: serato is not supported on Linux

Author: done!

.. sectionauthor::
   S.Brandt <s.brandt@mixxx.org>
   Ukpai Ugochi <outreachy applicant>

> Supported libraries:

Author: Ok! I will do that now!

> Supported libraries:

Author: > Serato should be listed here too.
> 
> Also, the title of the section should probably be changed, because if we also add Serato and Rekordbox it becomes too long. How about "Using External Libraries" or "Importing libraries from other software" or something like that?

I have done this! I added Serato to the title, I didn't add RekordBok because nothing was talked about it in that section. The issue for this pull request is **Documenting Imports from Serato**, nothing was said about **RekordBox**. The title of this section already has **Using external libraries** in it. Please let me know if there's any title you think would fit this section more, i would be glad to add it.

> Supported libraries:

Reviewer 2: Thanks. What I meant is that we also support Rekordbox, and if we are going to add that to the section title too it would become a bit long. That's why I suggested to removed all application names from the section and just name it something like "Using libraries from other software".

Also, there is a list "Supported libraries" and Serato is currently missing from that list. Could you add that please? A logo can be found here: https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/blob/master/res/images/library/ic_library_serato.svg

> Supported libraries:

Author: > Thanks. What I meant is that we also support Rekordbox, and if we are going to add that to the section title too it would become a bit long. That's why I suggested to removed all application names from the section and just name it something like "Using libraries from other software".
> 
> Also, there is a list "Supported libraries" and Serato is currently missing from that list. Could you add that please? A logo can be found here: https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/blob/master/res/images/library/ic_library_serato.svg

Sure, I would change the title of the section (it certainly does look long). I would also add Serato to the list of supported libraries in Mixxx manual-2.3x. ```"Using libraries from other software"``` the title should fit in, especially if Mixxx supports other software then there would be no need to change title again.

> Supported libraries:

Reviewer 2: > Also, there is a list "Supported libraries" and Serato is currently missing from that list. Could you add that please? A logo can be found here: https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/blob/master/res/images/library/ic_library_serato.svg

Ping.

> Supported libraries:

Author: > > Also, there is a list "Supported libraries" and Serato is currently missing from that list. Could you add that please? A logo can be found here: https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/blob/master/res/images/library/ic_library_serato.svg
> 
> Ping.

I am working on this now!

> Supported libraries:

Author: > > > Also, there is a list "Supported libraries" and Serato is currently missing from that list. Could you add that please? A logo can be found here: https://github.com/mixxxdj/mixxx/blob/master/res/images/library/ic_library_serato.svg
> > 
> > 
> > Ping.
> 
> I am working on this now!

Hello @Holzhaus I have done this! Please review.

  Mac partition mounted in Linux, you can load it and use your iTunes tracks and
  playlists as well.

.. _import-serato-metadata:

Importing metadata from Serato
------------------------------

.. sectionauthor::
   Ukpai Ugochi <outreachy applicant>

Serato produces DJ softwares used for digital music mixing as well as digital vinyl record

> mixing for DVS records. While Serato is neither open source or customizable, It is possible 

Reviewer: for ease of reviewing, can you put every sentence on its own line?

Reviewer: (without word wrap.  That way each line of the pull request is a single sentence)

Author: Am on that!

* For each removable device, the library and all crates from Serato will accessible.

Import your Beatgrid and Hotcues
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Serato libraries imported into Mixxx would have beatgrid, hotcues and other metadata imported immediately you load the track for the first time.

If you have already added a track to your Mixxx library before support for reading Serato's hotcues was added, you can reimport metadata from Serato via the track context menu.
This action will clear your existing cuepoints in Mixxx if the track has any Serato hotcues.

**To reimport metadata for files**

* Right click on the track and select metadata
* Click on Import from file tag. If the track has Serato Metadata, all existing cue points will be overwritten

Decoders may slightly detect different track start and end times for files from different sources, this could possibly be because of the presence of countless encoders and decoders for MP3 and M4A/AAC.
This problem may cause your cues to be shifted up by a few milliseconds. 

Mixxx might not always be able to mitigate this problem, but it's possible to shift all cues for a track at once as a workaround.

> .. seealso:: External libraries can be disabled under

Reviewer 2: I think this is unrelated to the Serato library import and should be moved up, right below the "Playing a track from an external library will add it to your Mixxx library" note.

Author: > I think this is unrelated to the Serato library import and should be moved up, right below the "Playing a track from an external library will add it to your Mixxx library" note.

Hello @Holzhaus changes have been implemented, please review! Thank you

Reviewer 2: Sorry if this was unclear, but I meant the "External libraries can be disabled" note, not the stuff about encoders.

Author: > Sorry if this was unclear, but I meant the "External libraries can be disabled" note, not the stuff about encoders.

No problems, I just effected the change, please review

With this method, it possible to fix the cue positions if Mixxx fails to determine the correct offsets.

Below are lists of tags that are currently read and parsed by Mixxx

**Set-up**

Import Loops from Serato
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

From Mixxx 2.3, saved loops from Serato can be imported. Proper support for importing and restoring saved loops from Serato is scheduled for Mixxx 2.4. 

For now, we just import these loops into the Mixxx database and allows using their start position as regular hotcues. 
With this in place, you can start using your loops once Mixxx 2.4 is out and avoid reimporting track meta data.

**Set-up**

Imports not currently supported
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for importing track overview waveform image stored in Serato into Mixxx has not been provided in Mixxx 2.3. 
Serato flip macros cannot be imported either because flip does not offer that kind of functionality yet.

Currently, you cannot write cues from Mixxx into Serato metadata tags. 
We are working hard to implemment support for exporting Serato metadata tags in upcoming Mixxx versions, stay tunned.

> 

Reviewer 2: Thank you for writing this. However, the phrasing is a bit "marketing-like" and for the manual we can make this a lot shorter and more formal.

I think we just need to describe the following things briefly:
- It's possible to read Serato libraries from your hard disk and USB drives, including crates. Smart crates are not supported at the moment.
- Mixxx will also read Serato metadata from file tags and will import the beatgrid and hotcues from the tags. Saved Loops will be imported too, but as of Mixxx 2.3 only the first loop is usable.
- If you want to reimport the metadata for files, you can right-click on a track and select Metadata > Import from file tag. If the track has Serato Metadata, all existing cue points will be overwritten.
- Exporting the beatgrid and hotcues to Serato is currently not supported.

Author: ok! I would look into this now!

Author: > Thank you for writing this. However, the phrasing is a bit "marketing-like" and for the manual we can make this a lot shorter and more formal.
> 
> I think we just need to describe the following things briefly:
> 
> * It's possible to read Serato libraries from your hard disk and USB drives, including crates. Smart crates are not supported at the moment.
> * Mixxx will also read Serato metadata from file tags and will import the beatgrid and hotcues from the tags. Saved Loops will be imported too, but as of Mixxx 2.3 only the first loop is usable.
> * If you want to reimport the metadata for files, you can right-click on a track and select Metadata > Import from file tag. If the track has Serato Metadata, all existing cue points will be overwritten.
> * Exporting the beatgrid and hotcues to Serato is currently not supported.

I just worked on this, thank you for your time and the **honest feedback you gave**. Changes have been done to effect this, please let me know if there's anything to add or remove to make this documentation better.

Don't you think we need an image for this section? Any suggestions?

  Mac partition mounted in Linux, you can load it and use your iTunes tracks and
  playlists as well.

> .. _import-serato-metadata:
> 
> Importing metadata from Serato
> ------------------------------

Reviewer 2: The section more than just metadata tags.

What do think about this?

```suggestion
.. _library-serato:

Using the Serato library
------------------------
```

Author: Sure! Since the section talks of more than just metadata tags

Reviewer 2: By the way, you can apply apply these suggestions directly from GitHub web interface: https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request#applying-suggested-changes

Author: > By the way, you can apply apply these suggestions directly from GitHub web interface: https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request#applying-suggested-changes

Thank you so much! I would read this up and implement in future suggestions. Thank you so much!

> From Mixxx 2.3, tracks in your Serato library and crates can now be imported into Mixxx library table.
> Tracks can also be loaded into deck without needing to add the music directory in the preferences. 
> You can also import your Serato library into Mixxx that are in USB drives for a portable Serato library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mixxx supports reading your Serato library and crates both from your local hard drive as well as portable USB drives. Smart crates are currently not supported.

Serato stores information such as hot cues, track color and beatgrid in the file tags.
Regardless of whether a track is loaded into deck from the libray or directly from the file browser, Mixxx will import that information automatically if present.

Saved loops are imported as well, but since Mixxx is lacking support for saved loops, only the first loop is usable in Mixxx.
All other saved loops can be used like regular hotcues for now.
   
Waveforms, Gain values and "Flips" are not imported from Serato.
   
.. note:: Due to differences in the metadata format, importing Serato information from Ogg Vorbis files is currently not supported.
```

**How to import Serato libraries from external USB drive**

* Copy music library from Serato into external USB drive
* Plug in USB drive while Mixxx is running

> * Click on Serato in the library, all records on USB from Serato will be visible (attach as many as you like!)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Click on Serato in the library. All USB drives containing a Serato library will be detected automatically.
```

Author: I would work on all the changes you requested immediately and notify you when am done. Thank you so much for your help!

> * Then click on the desired removable device, and all your folders and playlists from Serato will be revealed for you to play from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  For each removable device, the library and all crates from Serato will accessible.
```

> Import your Beatgrid and Hotcues
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> 
> Track cue points are saved in special file tags as well as the track metadata. 
> You can now import your track cue points and all of it's metadata from Serato to Mixxx.
> 
> Once you import your Serato library into Mixxx and load a track for the first time, the positions, labels and colors of your hotcues, other metadatas and beatgrid are automatically imported.
> 

Reviewer 2: I think we can keep this shorter. Everything explained here has already been mentioned above.

```suggestion
```

If you have already added a track to your Mixxx library before support for reading Serato's hotcues was added, you can reimport metadata from Serato via the track context menu.
This action will clear your existing cuepoints in Mixxx if the track has any Serato hotcues.

**To reimport metadata for files**

* Right click on the track and select metadata
* Click on Import from file tag. If the track has Serato Metadata, all existing cue points will be overwritten

> Decodes may slightly detect different track start and end times for files from different sources, this could possibly be because of the presence of countless encoders and decoders for MP3 and M4A/AAC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Decoders may slightly detect different track start and end times for files from different sources, this could possibly be because of the presence of countless encoders and decoders for MP3 and M4A/AAC.
```

This problem may cause your cues to be shifted up by a few milliseconds. 

> While we are working very hard to mitigate this problem, we have added a way to shift all cues for a track at once. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mixxx might not always be able to mitigate this problem, but it's possible shift all cues for a track at once as a workaround. 
```

Author: ```Mixxx might not always be able to mitigate this problem, but it's possible **to** shift all cues for a track at once as a workaround```.

You missed **to** in this sentence, i added it to the commit

With this method, it possible to fix the cue positions if Mixxx fails to determine the correct offsets.

> Below are lists of tags that are currently read and parsed by Mixxx
> 
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> |            | ID3        | FLAC      | M4A       | Ogg Vorbis    | Description               |
> +============+============+===========+===========+===============+===========================+
> | Analysis   | No         | No        | No        | No            | Serato Analysis version   |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | Autotags   | No         | No        | No        | No            | BPM and Gain values       |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | Beatgrid   | Yes        | Yes       | Yes       | No            | Beatgrid Markers          |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | Markers    | Yes        | N/A       | Yes       | No            | Hotcues, Saved Loops, etc |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | Markers2   | Yes        | Yes       | Yes       | ?             | Hotcues, Saved Loops, etc |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | Offsets    | No         | No        | No        | No            |                           |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | Overview   | No         | No        | No        | No            | Overview Waveform data    | 
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | RelVol     | N/A        | No        | No        | N/A           |                           |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> | VideoAssoc | N/A        | No        | No        | N/A           |                           |
> +------------+------------+-----------+-----------+---------------+---------------------------+
> 
> 
> Import Loops from Serato
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> 
> From Mixxx 2.3, saved loops from Serato can be imported, but only the first loop is usable in Mixxx 2.3. 
> Proper support for importing and restoring saved loops from Serato is scheduled for Mixxx 2.4. 
> 
> For now, we just import these loops into the Mixxx database and allow using their start position as regular hotcues. 
> With this in place, you can start using your loops once Mixxx 2.4 is out and avoid reimporting track meta data.
> 
> Imports not currently supported
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> 
> Support for importing track overview waveform image stored in Serato into Mixxx and smart crates has not been provided in Mixxx 2.3. 
> Serato flip macros cannot be imported either because Mixxx does not offer that kind of functionality yet.
> 
> Currently, you cannot write cues from Mixxx into Serato metadata tags. 
> We are working hard to implemment support for exporting Serato metadata tags in upcoming Mixxx versions, stay tunned.

Reviewer 2: With the changes I suggested above this can be removed.

```suggestion
```

Author: Thank you so much @Holzhaus. I would implement this as soon as possible

Author: > With the changes I suggested above this can be removed.

Ok! I would remove the table and effect other changes you requested for

Author: > With the changes I suggested above this can be removed.

Hello @Holzhaus I just implemented the changes, Please review!

Saved loops are imported as well, but since Mixxx is lacking support for saved loops, only the first loop is usable in Mixxx.
All other saved loops can be used like regular hotcues for now.
   
Waveforms, Gain values and "Flips" are not imported from Serato.

.. note:: Due to differences in the metadata format, importing Serato information from Ogg Vorbis files is currently not supported.

**How to import Serato libraries from external USB drive**

* Copy music library from Serato into external USB drive
* Plug in USB drive while Mixxx is running
* Click on :guilabel:`Serato` in the library. All USB drives containing a Serato library will be detected automatically.
* For each removable device, the library and all crates from Serato will accessible.

If you have already added a track to your Mixxx library before support for reading Serato's hotcues was added, you can reimport metadata from Serato via the track context menu.
This action will clear your existing cuepoints in Mixxx if the track has any Serato hotcues.

**To reimport metadata for files**

* Right click on the track to show the context menu

> * Select :menuselection:`Metadata --> Import From File Tags`. If the track has Serato Metadata, all existing cue points will be overwritten

Author: Done!

  Mac partition mounted in Linux, you can load it and use your iTunes tracks and
  playlists as well.

.. _library-serato:

Using the Serato library
------------------------

Mixxx supports reading your Serato library and crates both from your local hard drive as well as portable USB drives. Smart crates are currently not supported.

Serato stores information such as hot cues, track color and beatgrid in the file tags.
Regardless of whether a track is loaded into deck from the libray or directly from the file browser, Mixxx will import that information automatically if present.

> Saved loops are imported as well, but since Mixxx is lacking support for saved loops, only the first loop is usable in Mixxx.

Reviewer: Maybe:

Saved loops are imported as well, but since Mixxx is lacking support for mulitple saved loops, only the first loop is usable in Mixxx.

(add the word "multiple")

Author: Changes effected @ywwg! Thank you for the reviews @Be-ing, @Holzhaus, @ronso0 and @ywwg.

> Saved loops are imported as well, but since Mixxx is lacking support for mulitple saved loops, only the first loop is usable in Mixxx.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Saved loops are imported as well, but since Mixxx is lacking support for multiple saved loops, only the first loop is usable in Mixxx.
```

Author: Done!

All other saved loops can be used like regular hotcues for now.
   
Waveforms, Gain values and "Flips" are not imported from Serato.

.. note:: Due to differences in the metadata format, importing Serato information from Ogg Vorbis files is currently not supported.

> **How to import Serato libraries from external USB drive**

Reviewer 2: The other instruction lists in this chapter don't use a bold font, so maybe this would fit a bit better:

```suggestion
To import Serato libraries from external USB drives:
```

Reviewer: +1 to this

Reviewer 2: Looks like you marked this as resolved without changing it?

Author: > Looks like you marked this as resolved without changing it?

Fixed now!

> * Copy music library from Serato into external USB drive

Reviewer: since this is an ordered list of steps, we should use numbers instead of bullet points.

```
  1.  Copy music...
  1.  Plug in USB drive....
```

markdown will set the numbers correctly, you can make all of them "1." and it will work right.

Reviewer 2: This is RST, not Markdown. Just number them correctly :D

Author: Hello @ywwg can you request for a change with the numbered list so i commit them directly here? I lost my system (Stolen) I don't have access to the changes I have made already.

Author: done!

* Plug in USB drive while Mixxx is running
* Click on :guilabel:`Serato` in the library. All USB drives containing a Serato library will be detected automatically.
* For each removable device, the library and all crates from Serato will accessible.

If you have already added a track containing Serato Metadata to your Mixxx library in a Mixxx version that didn't support reading that data, you can reimport it from the file's tags via the track context menu.

.. warning:: This action will clear your existing cuepoints in Mixxx if the file contains Serato Metadata

> **To reimport metadata for files**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reimport metadata for files:
```

Reviewer: +1

Reviewer 2: This also marked as resolved but not fixed.

Author: > This also marked as resolved but not fixed.

Fixed now, sorry.

  Mac partition mounted in Linux, you can load it and use your iTunes tracks and
  playlists as well.

.. _library-serato:

Using the Serato library
------------------------

Mixxx supports reading your Serato library and crates both from your local hard drive as well as portable USB drives. Smart crates are currently not supported.

Serato stores information such as hot cues, track color and beatgrid in the file tags.
Regardless of whether a track is loaded into deck from the libray or directly from the file browser, Mixxx will import that information automatically if present.

Saved loops are imported as well, but since Mixxx is lacking support for saved loops, only the first loop is usable in Mixxx.
All other saved loops can be used like regular hotcues for now.
   
Waveforms, Gain values and "Flips" are not imported from Serato.

.. note:: Due to differences in the metadata format, importing Serato information from Ogg Vorbis files is currently not supported.

**How to import Serato libraries from external USB drive**

* Copy music library from Serato into external USB drive
* Plug in USB drive while Mixxx is running

> * Click on Serato in the library. All USB drives containing a Serato library will be detected automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Click on :guilabel:`Serato` in the library. All USB drives containing a Serato library will be detected automatically.
```

Author: changes have been implemented

* For each removable device, the library and all crates from Serato will accessible.

> 
> Import your Beatgrid and Hotcues
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
> 
> Serato libraries imported into Mixxx would have beatgrid, hotcues and other metadata imported immediately you load the track for the first time.

Reviewer 2: I think this is redundant can be removed without losing information.

```suggestion
```

Author: changes have been implemented

If you have already added a track to your Mixxx library before support for reading Serato's hotcues was added, you can reimport metadata from Serato via the track context menu.
This action will clear your existing cuepoints in Mixxx if the track has any Serato hotcues.

**To reimport metadata for files**

> * Right click on the track and select metadata
> * Click on Import from file tag. If the track has Serato Metadata, all existing cue points will be overwritten

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Right click on the track to show the context menu
* Select :menuselection:`Metadata --> Import From File Tags`. If the track has Serato Metadata, all existing cue points will be overwritten
```

Author: > 

changes have been implemented

Decoders may slightly detect different track start and end times for files from different sources, this could possibly be because of the presence of countless encoders and decoders for MP3 and M4A/AAC.
This problem may cause your cues to be shifted up by a few milliseconds. 

> Mixxx might not always be able to mitigate this problem, but it's possible to shift all cues for a track at once as a workaround.

Reviewer 2: This could be a `hint` to make it stand out more, but no idea if this is better. You decide.

Author: I made it a ```hint```
